# Create your DID
Before using the CYFS system, you must bind the DID to the OOD and the CYFS browser. Here are a few ways to bind the DID.

## Bind DID using CyberChat
This is our recommended method, suitable for all kinds of OOD, easy to operate

1. Install CyberChat and create an DID: From [download.md](../Download.md) or the CYFS official website [cyfs.com](https://www.cyfs.com), download CyberChat and install it. After installation, open CyberChat and follow the prompts to create an DID.
2. Bind OOD: Install OOD first, binary from the official website, or OOD compiled by yourself. After installation:
   > - If the OOD and the CyberChat are in the same LAN, you can use the super feed's scan binding function to bind directly
   > - If OOD and ood are not in the same local area network, first make sure that port 1325 of the OOD machine can be accessed by ood. After executing `./ood-installer --bind` on OOD, use CyerChat to scan the QR Code in terminal to bind.
3. Bind the runtime: Install the CYFS browser, then open the browser, and use the QR code in the CyberChat to scan the webpage to bind

## Bind DID using CYFS TOOL
This binding method does not require a mobile phone or scan code, just a PC can be done

Note: The DID generated in this way cannot be imported into CyberChat, and you cannot use CyberChat to continue to manage DID in the future.

1. Install cyfs-tool: use the command line `npm i -g cyfs-tool-nightly` to install the nightly version of the cyfs-tool tool
2. Generating sets of identities
   > Use the command `cyfs desc -s <save_path>` to generate a matching DID desc file and save it in the save_path directory. If save_path is not specified, it defaults to ~/.cyfs_profile
3. Bind OOD
   > After the DID desc is generated, copy the two files `<save_path>/ood.desc` and `<save_path>/ood.sec` to `${cyfs_root}/etc/desc` on the OOD machine and rename it to `device. desc` and `device.sec`
4. Bind CYFS browser
   > After the DID is generated, copy the two files `<save_path>/runtime.desc` and `<save_path>/runtime.sec` to `${cyfs_runtime_root}/etc/desc` on the CYFS browser machine and rename them to ` device.desc` and `device.sec`

`${cyfs_runtime_root}` specific path:
- Windows: `%appdata%/cyfs`
- Mac OS: `~/Library/Application Support/cyfs`