# Publish your first file

## Upload files
As a first step to the CYFS world, let's upload a file to your own OOD. Upload operations can be done using the `cyfs-tool` tool.

Execute the command `npm i -g cyfs-tool-nightly` to install the nightly version of the cyfs-tool tool

### Upload files via cyfs-runtime
If the CYFS browser has been installed and activated on the local machine, you can upload the local files to your own OOD through the cyfs runtime protocol stack used by the browser.
Use the command `cyfs upload <file_path> -e runtime -t ood` to upload the file pointed to by the local <file_path> to OOD.
- -e runtime, this option indicates that the cyfs tool will use the native cyfs-runtime protocol stack, when the parameter is runtime, this option can be omitted
- -t ood, this option means upload files from local to OOD
  
After a few moments, the file will be uploaded successfully. At this point, the tool will return a link starting with `cyfs://o`. This kind of link is called an O-link. It is unique in the whole network and will only point to the file you just uploaded.

Looking at the O-link, you will notice that there is no filename reflected in the link. This is because the CYFS network is a content-based network, and this link reflects the content of the file

### Add files directly on OOD
If the file to be uploaded is large, we can also choose to add the file to the CYFS network directly on OOD. This method is more stable and less time consuming

Use the command `cyfs upload <file_path> -e ood -t ood` to add the file pointed to by the local <file_path> to OOD.

- -e ood, this option indicates that the cyfs tool will use the native OOD protocol stack, this option cannot be omitted at this time
- -t ood, this option means upload files from local to OOD

Execute this command on OOD and you can observe that the command executes a lot faster due to less upload steps. After the command is executed, a link starting with `cyfs://o` is also generated.

**Note**: This command is "*add*" instead of "*upload*" when executed on OOD, if you delete the local file on OOD, this link will not work. When executed on the machine where cyfs-runtime is located, it is "*upload*". After the upload is complete, the local files on the machine can be deleted.

## download file
After the file is uploaded successfully, the generated object link can be downloaded by others. Downloading can also be done via `cyfs-tool`ß

Use the command `cyfs get <object link> -s <save_path>` to download the file to the local through the cyfs-runtime protocol stack
- If you want to download using the OOD protocol stack, execute this command on OOD and add the -e ood parameter
- If save_path is a file path, the file pointed to by <O-link> will be stored with save_path as the file name
- If save_path is a directory, the file pointed to by <O-link> will be downloaded to save_path/{fileid}.file
