# Introduction

Thank you for reading the second part of the CYFS series of development tutorials, "Practical Decentralization Message Board"!

First of all, congratulations on completing the study of "Hello CYFS", and you can save and publish your own content based on CYFS Network. Have a certain degree of understanding of the basic concepts of CYFS. I believe that you have already felt the energy of Web3 surging between the codes. Maybe for a moment, you feel that you can see a vast new world through the crack of the door of the new world.

Want to know more!

This tutorial will start from the message board system that we were familiar with when we learned dynamic websites in the past, and fully demonstrate the next-generation Internet conceived by CYFS from a technical point of view. The length of this tutorial is not short (we have planned 12 chapters, which are still under continuous revision and improvement), and the author's expressive ability is also limited (after all, the most annoying thing for engineers is that others do not write documents and write documents themselves), This must not be an easy process. We will continue to optimize and supplement this tutorial, I hope you can master the following after finishing this tutorial:

- Understand the basic working principle of CYFS decentralized Internet service DEC APP
- Master the key points of DEC App's data modeling process: data property analysis
- Master the common routines for DEC App development based on cyfs-tsk-sdk
- Understand the fundamentals of consensus lists
- Understand the basic working principles and applicable scenarios of data exchange contracts, capability boundaries
- Master basic DEC App debugging and optimization skills
- Understand the Access Control Layer of the OOD System
- Understand the high reliability and high availability principle of DEC App

The only prerequisite for reading this tutorial is that you have completed the "Hello, CYFS" series of tutorials. The content of the above list, traditionally, is almost the structure of a senior back-end architect. By learning CYFS, you can once again feel the leading edge of the Web3 infrastructure: a large number of distributed system capabilities that have been developed many times have become the basic capabilities of the network. It is easy for developers to master and use them, and they can pay attention to them. critical business. Just like every time the operating system changes, things that are very difficult to achieve in the old operating system are often solved by an API in the new system. In a sense, it is a dimensionality reduction blow. We sincerely hope that you will be the first person in the world to master these new abilities. Let's turn the old world together~

# Message board requirements

Although many people learn dynamic web development from message boards, in order to prevent misunderstandings, we still explain our needs in the first chapter.
The CYFS browser has a bound decentralized identity, so there is no login registration module in the requirements.

## Message board view

View someone's message board page (if no parameter is to view your own message board)

```
cyfs://xxxx/meessage_baord/index.html?peopleid=xxxx
```

All messages are listed in chronological order on the message board. The message includes title, speaker, time, and content.

## create message

There is an entry for creating a message on each message board. Click the pop-up to enter a message and post it to the current message board according to the rules.

## message modification

The author of the message can modify the message that has already been posted.
The administrator of the message board can delete messages.

## Leave a comment

Each message can expand the comment list, and you can see the comments on the message

## Leave a comment

In the comment list of the message, there is an entry for posting comments. Click to pop up a list of comments that can be posted to the current message according to the rules after entering comments

## Comment deletion and modification

Comments can be deleted and modified according to the rules
